# Incident: 2024-11-25

## Summary

Between the hours of 1:30pm and 3:13pm on 2024-11-25, 2 users encountered the inability to order pizzas. The event was triggered by a change in the response given by the pizza factory. The invalid response was a different shape than the backend service expected, causing a failure.

The incident was the result of scheduled chaos testing, demonstrating how essential the pizza factory is to the rest of the application.

## Detection

When did the team detect the incident? How did they know it was happening? How could we improve time-to-detection? Consider: How would we have cut that time by half?

**EXAMPLE**:

This incident was detected when the Grafana metrics indicated a number of failed pizza orders. David was pinged by the Grafana OnCall service and began looking into the issue. He discovered that when customers ordered a pizza, they would be greeting by a message indicating that the JWT pizza factory service was failing. Looking closer at the responses from the factory, he discovered that the response was malformated, triggering a failure

## Impact

This incident impacted users as they were unable to order pizzas between 1:30pm and 3:13pm on 2024-11-25. It impacted 100% of users.

## Response

After seeing a spike in failures of pizza orders on Grafana metrics dashboard, David investigated the issue and discovered and mitigated the incident.

# Root cause

The root cause was chaos testing which impacted the pizza factory, causing it to return unexpected responses

## Resolution

Once it was discovered that the responses were malformed, David followed the link in the response to resolve the issue

# Prevention

To prevent this issue, we should look over the factory service and make sure it is not vulnerable to returning malformed responses. Additionally, we should have a backup and better error handling in the backend service when bad responses are received
